[Music]
we've been making sauerkraut as long as
we've been growing cabbage and typically
you'll harvest your cabbage after the
first or second light frost they say it
tends to sweeten it come on over this
way let me show you what you need to get
started on your sauerkraut so you'll
need a scale canning salt or non-iodized
salt an earthenware crock or a food
grade bucket and 15 pounds of cabbage
yeah I said 15 this is my last head of
cabbage that we need for the
sauerkraut's let's head over to the sink
and give it a rinse so we're going to
remove the outer leaves and inspect it
for any spoilage or brown spots looks
good
let's give it a rinse
okay
back to the counter so this is the kraut
cutter we used to use this is the one I
prefer to use now because this protects
my fingers from the blade and with
sauerkraut you want the long thin shreds
whether you choose to cut it with a
knife or your favorite cutter now our
next step is to weigh the cabbage we
want 5 pounds of shredded cabbage and 3
tablespoons of non-iodized canning salt
we're going to sprinkle our salt on the
cabbage and then let it sit for about 5
to 10 minutes so the cabbage wilts and
it starts to draw out the juice
okay there's just no other way around it
just use your hands to toss the salt
with the cabbage all right we'll let
this sit we'll come back and it'll start
to have some juice on the bottom and
then we're going to pack it into our
crock it's been 10 minutes take a look
at how our cabbage has wilted and how
the natural juices have been drawn out
by the canning salt now the next step is
to transfer the wilted cabbage into our
crock so the cabbage will go in and
we'll pour the juices on top and then
we're going to tamp it down with our
hand
all right the cabbage is in goes the
juice next we're going to even out our
cabbage and tamp it down you want the
juices to cover all of the cabbage
now you want to leave at least four
inches of clearance here because once
the fermentation process starts you will
have some juices bubbling up you'll need
to food grade plastic bags the first one
will cover the kraut and act as a
barrier the second one we're going to
fill with water actually three to four
inches of water so the water filled bag
is going to do three things for us cover
the cabbage weigh it down while the
fermentation process is active and also
provide an anaerobic condition for
fermentation to occur and now is a great
time to mention why we're using canning
salt canning salt is not iodized if you
use iodine salt in your cabbage to make
sauerkraut
it wouldn't ferment
I tied the bag shut as an added security
we usually place a dinner plate with
maybe a bottle of water or some sort of
weight on top now we need to find a home
for our crock for the next three to four
weeks we want to choose a place that's
well-ventilated and has a relatively
constant temperature between maybe 68
and 72 just keep in mind if the
temperature is cooler the fermentation
process is going to take longer check it
daily because you might have some film
or light scum buildup on the top you
just want to skim that off because
that's normal and we'll come back in
three to four weeks and process our
sauerkraut
[Music]